docs: add saml idp rbac guide under igs pages (#58643)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/identity-governance/idps/saml-idp-rbac.mdx

---
title: SAML Application Access Control
description: Learn how to manage access to a SAML service provider (SAML applications).
sidebar_position: 2
labels:
 - identity-governance
---

This page explains how access to a SAML IdP service provider resource (SAML application)
can be managed in Teleport. 

If you are new to the Teleport SAML IdP, start by learning how to configure [Teleport as 
an SAML IdP](saml-guide.mdx).

## How it works 

User access to the SAML IdP service provider resource can be categorized into two different 
use cases:
- **Managing a SAML IdP service provider resource.** For example, when a Teleport administrator 
  attempts to create or update a SAML IdP service provider resource.
- **Logging in to the SAML service provider.** For example, when a Teleport user attempts to
  log in to the SAML IdP service provider by authenticating with Teleport. 

In both the cases, access can be configured by using a Teleport role 
with an allow/deny rule targeting the `saml_idp_service_provider` resource and label matchers
matching role `app_labels` with the `saml_idp_service_provider` resource labels. 

> ## RBAC behaviour between different Teleport role versions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## RBAC behavior between different Teleport role versions
```
We tend to use US spelling in the docs

> SAML IdP service provider resource have a different RBAC behavior applied to them in 
> role version 8 versus role version 7 and below. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Teleport SAML IdP applies different RBAC logic to the service provider resource in
role version 8 versus role version 7 and below. 
```

In role version 7 and below, the following access controls are applied to the `saml_idp_service_provider`
resource access: 

> - Role option that enables idp: `spec.options.idp.saml.enabled: true/false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Role option that enables the IdP: `spec.options.idp.saml.enabled: true/false`.
```

> - Cluster auth preference that enables idp: `spec.idp.saml.enabled: true/false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Cluster auth preference that enables the IdP: `spec.idp.saml.enabled: true/false`.
```
